After a brief overview of some
of the processing systems
in the Big Data Landscape, it is time for
us to dive deeper into Spark.
Spark was initiated at
UC Berkeley in 2009 and
was transferred to
Apache Software Foundation in 2013.
Since then, Spark has become a top
level project with many users and
contributors worldwide.
After this video, you will be able
to list the main motivations for
the development of Spark,
draw the Spark stack as a layer diagram,
And explain the functionality of
the components in the Spark stack.
As we have discussed in our earlier
discussions, while Hadoop is great for
batch processing using
the MapReduce programming module,
it has shortcomings in a number of ways.
First of all, since it is limited to
Map and Reduce based transformations,
one has to restrict their big data
pipeline to map and reduce steps.
But the number of applications
can be implemented using Map and
Reduce, it's not always possible and
it is often not the most efficient
way to express a big data pipeline.
For example, you might want to do a join
operation between different data sets or
you might want to filter or
sample your data.
Or you might have a more
complicated data pipeline with
several steps including joins and
group byes.
It might have a Map and Reduce face,
but maybe another map face after that.
These types of operations are hard or
impossible to express using MapReduce and
cannot be accommodated by
the MapReduce framework in Hadoop.
Another important bottleneck in
Hadoop MapReduce that is critical for
performance, is that MapReduce relies
heavily on reading data from disc.
This is especially a problem for iterative
algorithms that require taking several
passes through the data using
a number of transformations.
Since each transformation will need
to read its inputs from the disk,
this will end up in a performance
bottleneck due to IO.
Most machine learning pipelines
are in this category,
making Hadoop MapReduce not ideal for
machine learning.
And as I mentioned in the system overview,
the only programming language
that MapReduce provides
a native interface for is Java.
Although, it's possible to run Python code
to implementation for it is more complex
and not very efficient especially when
you are running not with text data, but
with floating point numbers.
The programming language issue
also affects how interactive
the environment is.
Most data scientist
prefer to use scripting
languages due to their
interactive shell capabilities.
Not having such an interface in Hadoop
really makes it difficult to use and
adapt my many in the field.
In addition in the big data
era having support for
streaming data processing is a key for
being able to run similar analysis on
both real time and historical data.
Spark came out of the need to
extend the MapReduce framework
to overcome this shortcomings and
provide an expressive cluster computing
environment that can provide interactive
querying, efficient iterative analytics
and streaming data processing.
So, how does Apache Spark provide
solutions for these problems?
Spark provides a very rich and
expressive programming module that
gives you more than 20 highly efficient
distributed operations or transformations.
Pipe-lining any of these steps in Spark
simply takes a few lines of code.
Another important feature of Spark is
the ability to run these computations
in memory.
It's ability to cache and
process data in memory,
makes it significantly faster for
iterative applications.
This is proven to provide a factor
of ten or even 100 speed-up
in the performance of some algorithms,
especially using large data sets.
Additionally, Spark provides support for
batch and streaming workloads at once.
Last but not least,
Spark provides simple APIs for Python,
Scala, Java and SQL programming
through an interactive shell to
accomplish analytical tasks through both
external and its built-in libraries.
The Spark layer diagram,
also called Stack,
consists of components that build on
top of the Spark computational engine.
This engine distributes and monitors tasks
across the nodes of a commodity cluster.
The components built on top of this
engine are designed to interact and
communicate through this common engine.
Any improvements to
the underlying engine becomes
an improvement in the other components,
thanks to such close interaction.
This also enables building applications
that's span across these different
components like querying data using
Spark SQL and applying machine learning
algorithms, the query results using Sparks
machine learning library and MLlib.
The Spark Core is where
the core capability is
of the Spark Framework are implemented.
This includes support for
distributed scheduling,
memory management and full tolerance.
Interaction with different schedulers,
like YARN and Mesos and
various NoSQL storage systems like
HBase also happen through Spark Core.
A very important part of
Spark Core is the APIs for
defining resilient distributed data sets,
or RDDs for short.
RDDs are the main programming
abstraction in Spark,
which carry data across many computing
nodes in parallel, and transform it.
Spark SQL is the component of Spark
that provides querying structured and
unstructured data through
a common query language.
It can connect to many data sources and
provide APIs to convert
query results to RDDs in Python,
Scala and Java programs.
Spark Streaming is where data
manipulations take place in Spark.
Although, not a native real-time interface
to datastreams, Spark streaming enables
creating small aggregates of data coming
from streaming data ingestion systems.
These aggregate datasets
are called micro-batches and
they can be converted into RDBs in
Spark Streaming for processing.
MLlib is Sparks native library for
machine learning algorithms
as well as model evaluation.
All of the functionality is potentially
ported to any programming language Sparks
supports and
is designed to scale out using Spark.
GraphX is the graph analytics
library of Spark and
enables the Vertex edge data model of
graphs to be converted into RDDs as
well as providing scalable implementations
of graph processing algorithms.
To summarize, through these
layers Spark provides diverse,
scalable interactive management and
analyses of big data.
The interactive shell enables data
scientists to conduct exploratory
analysis and create big data pipelines,
while also enabling the big
data system integration engineers
to scale these analytical pipelines
across commodity computing clusters and
cloud environments.